Film casting or the application of coating
can be performed in multiple ways, –
e.g. using slot die
or a foam applicator.
In nanocellulose film casting,
the material is evenly coated –
on plastic substrate with
controlled spreading and adhesion.
The texture of the plastic base surface
is replicated to the nanocellulose film, –
making it very smooth.
The shrinkage is efficiently prevented
by film adhering to the plastic substrate, –
while the moisture is carefully
evaporated with driers.
The pilot line is modular,
consisting of several drying units –
with variable drying performance.
After drying, the nanocellulose film
is delaminated from the plastic support –
and can be transferred into a roll.
Nanocellulose films manufactured on the pilot
line have potential as barrier materials –
in food packaging or as a
substrate for printed electronics.